README.md, before:

# Referral Finder

## Overview

Referral Finder is a project designed to simplify the process of managing referrals. It comprises frontend and backend components that seamlessly run within Docker containers.

### Frontend

The `frontend` directory contains the client-side application, developed using React and JavaScript. This interface enables users to interact with Referral Finder, providing intuitive tools for searching, managing, and handling referrals.

### Backend

The `backend` directory houses the server-side application. Built on Django and FastAPI with two separate server, it manages data, user requests, and database interactions, providing essential endpoints and logic to support the frontend functionalities.

## Running the Project

### Prerequisites

Ensure the following dependencies are installed before running Referral Finder:

- Docker

### Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/referral-finder.git
   ```

2. **Build Docker Containers**
You need to build/run PostgreSQL, Redis, and RabbitMQ Container using official image before starting the project.
    ```bash
    docker run --name my-postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=['sceret'] -e POSTGRES_USER=['sceret] -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=['sceret] -d postgres
    ````
    
    ```bash
    docker run -d --name my-redis -p 6379:6379 redis
    ````
    
     ```bash
    cd rabbit_container
    docker build -t rabbit .
    docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 10000:15672 --name rabbit-container rabbit
    cd ..
    ````
     
    ```bash
    docker build -t my-app:latest .
    ```
3. **Run Docker Container**
You need to find the respective IPAddress of PostgreSQL, Redis, and RabbitMQ container using ```bash  docker inspect [my-postgres|my-redis|rabbit] | grep -i ipaddress```
    ```bash
    docker run --rm --name referral
      -e DB_HOST='[my-postgres-ip]' \
      -e REDIS_HOST='[my-redis-ip]' \
      -e RABBIT_HOST='[rabbit-ip]'\
     -p 8088:8000 -p 8087:3000 -p 8002:8001 \
     -v ./resume_data:/app/backend/media 
    my-app
    ```
At this point, Django server is running in the terminal.

4. **Start the Server in Docker**
Finally, you need to start React server, FastAPI server and Celery server, which provides frontend UI, websocket, ane async email service in other terminal.
For Django (only when you first run the server or make changes to the Models):
    ```bash
    cd backend
    python manage.py makemigrations
    python manage.py migrate
    ```
For React:
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm start
    ```
For FastAPI:
    ```bash
    cd backend
    uvicorn websocket:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
    ```
For Celery:
  ```bash
  cd backend
  celery -A referral worker --loglevel=INFO
  ```

5. **Navigate the App in Browser**
Frontend will be running on: 
```bash http://localhost:8087/```

Commit message:

finish containization and add shell script

README.md, after:

# Referral Finder

## Overview

Referral Finder is a project designed to simplify the process of managing referrals. It comprises frontend and backend components that seamlessly run within Docker containers.

### Frontend

The `frontend` directory contains the client-side application, developed using React and JavaScript. This interface enables users to interact with Referral Finder, providing intuitive tools for searching, managing, and handling referrals.

### Backend

The `backend` directory houses the server-side application. Built on Django and FastAPI with two separate server, it manages data, user requests, and database interactions, providing essential endpoints and logic to support the frontend functionalities.

## Running the Project

### Prerequisites

Ensure the following dependencies are installed before running Referral Finder:

- Docker

### Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/referral-finder.git
   ```

2. **Build & Run Docker Containers**
You need to build/run PostgreSQL, Redis, and RabbitMQ Container using official image before starting the project.
    ```bash
    docker run --name my-postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=['sceret'] -e POSTGRES_USER=['sceret] -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=['sceret] -d postgres
    ````
    
    ```bash
    docker run -d --name my-redis -p 6379:6379 redis
    ````
    
     ```bash
    cd rabbit_container
    docker build -t rabbit .
    docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 10000:15672 --name rabbit-container rabbit
    cd ..
    ````
     
    ```bash
    docker build -t my-app:latest .
    ```
3. **Run Referral Docker Container**
The provided script start_project.sh orchestrates the launch of various servers. Running this script initiates the simultaneous activation of Django, React, FastAPI, and Celery servers, facilitating a comprehensive web application setup. Moreover, this cohesive setup ensures continuous synchronization between your local development environment and the referral Docker container.

Prior to executing the script, ensure you replace [my-postgres-ip], [my-redis-ip], and [rabbit-ip] with the respective IP addresses retrieved using the following commands:

PostgreSQL IP: ``` docker inspect [my-postgres] | grep -i ipaddress```
Redis IP: ```docker inspect [my-redis] | grep -i ipaddress```
RabbitMQ IP: ```docker inspect [rabbit] | grep -i ipaddress```

```bash
    docker run --name referral
      -e DB_HOST='[my-postgres-ip]' \
      -e REDIS_HOST='[my-redis-ip]' \
      -e RABBIT_HOST='[rabbit-ip]'\
     -p 8088:8000 -p 8087:3000 -p 8002:8001 \
     -v .:/app
    my-app
```
At this point, all four servers (Django, React, FastAPI, Celery) will be running in the terminal automatically.

4. **Manually Start the Server in Docker [Optional]**
In case you need to manually start Django, React, FastAPI and Celery server, you can run the following commands:

For Django (only when you first run the server or make changes to the Models):
    ```bash
    cd backend
    python manage.py makemigrations
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

For React:
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm start
    ```

For FastAPI:
    ```bash
    cd backend
    uvicorn websocket:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
    ```

For Celery:
  ```bash
  cd backend
  celery -A referral worker --loglevel=INFO
  ```

5. **Navigate the App in Browser**
Frontend will be running on: 
```bash http://localhost:8087/```
